One possible approach to replicate data from Sybase to one or more target databases would be to first setup replication from the Sybase instance to a SQL Server instance using Sybase supported replication (see e.g. https://infocenter.sybase.com/help/index.jsp?topic=/com.sybase.infocenter.dc00766.1550/html/rso_quickstart/BGBFJJGH.htm ). With this setup, it should be possible to have continuous online replication from Sybase to the new SQL server instance in a way that is reliable (e.g. transactionally consistent) and efficient (without overly high impact on the production server).

Once the data is in SQL server, existing tools (like MS SQL CDC: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/track-changes/about-change-data-capture-sql-server?view=sql-server-ver17, Debezium https://debezium.io/  and possibly Kafka https://kafka.apache.org/ ) can be used to create a chain that can stream specific data to any number of other databases.

The goal of this story is to analyze this approach to validate its potential for the Sybase migration. As part of this story, an experiment should be set up to gain hands-on experience. Of particular interest is the impact of the size of the database (both in number of records and in number of objects), the impact on the complex database eco-system we have and the performance impact on the source Sybase database engine. Also, the bootstrap process where an empty target database needs to be populated should be investigated.

Note that this setup is also useful in case our target database engine for the Sybase migration would be SQL server. The sql server instance that is described above would then be an intermediate station between the Sybase and the various domain island sql server instances.
